The way I structure these videos is I
release some that are more normiecoded
like the ones on current American
politics and society while some more
niche ones like the one on me
civilization. This video doesn't really
fit into an easy category and you'll see
why. In a lot of my videos, I point out
a trend which I think will happen
whether or not I want it to. In this
video, I've found something that could
work. Whether or not you guys find this
useful is your choice, but I'm at least
offering it as an option. Our society is
going through a very brutal period, and
I think anyone on every side of the
political octagon can agree to that. One
of the core issues is that the lack of
meaning or any sense of shared reality.
In a psychological sense, we live in a
world that's like shattered glass. As
was foretold in the 19th century by
Nietz, the death of God had consequences
that utterly destroyed the old world.
Things that we used to take completely
for granted are just gone now. There's
no shared concept that human life has
any value. That there even is a soul.
How the universe works, should the
nation exist, what reality even is, or
what a man and a woman are. We've
already gone insane. were just wealthy
enough to mask the consequences. I could
pick up on this void intuitively in high
school where I realized adults didn't
actually understand the things they were
saying. There was nothing behind the
bluff that was our society and I knew it
would come tumbling down sooner or
later. Sadly, I turned out to be right.
Since then, I've been trying to piece
things together to make sense of what
will and won't work here. I cross-
referenced a variety of things until I
found what I'm about to tell you in this
video.
[music]
I once did a podcast with Bology
comparing alchemy to crypto in which
both are international systems for
kings, rogues, and travelers to create
an order distinct from governments. Both
give you rewards for passing certain
difficult tests, have multiple tiers in
an encrypted internal system, and have
power if you know how to use them. They
have their own worldview, and are tools
to resist centralized power. To speak to
that theme, Zcash is unstoppable private
money. It's like Bitcoin but encrypted,
giving you the freedom to transact
without surveillance, without
debasement, and without permission. An
issue with the dominant crypto is that
the state can monitor it, which is a
real issue, and Zcash fights back
against that. It's money that lets
builders build in dreamers dream even
when states decay. If you want a future
of infinite frontiers and if your soul
craves freedom, you need money that
resists control because seen wealth is
seizable wealth. You need Zcash. Some
are saying privacy might be the last
1,000x in crypto. The best way to get
started with Zcash is by buying and
storing unstoppable private money using
Zashi wallet. Download Zashi on your
mobile phone today.
Part one, a paradox. I think once
humanity's power grew great enough and
we were no longer dependent on nature,
very strange things started to happen.
Wait, I don't think that. I know it to
be true. The modern world shows such
staggering intensity between a society
which grew so wealthy it committed
suicide. Progressives who in their drive
for progress collapsed their societies.
The atom bomb which both ended war while
causing the potential for the end of
civilization in a bad morning. The
Japanese Empire rising to conquer
everything from Alaska to New Guinea
overnight. or Hitler emerging from being
an unemployed vagrant to Germany's
furer, conquering an empire stretching
from the Atlantic to Kazakhstan, which
lasted a very mythic 12 years. You
wouldn't think the world today was real
if we didn't have to live in it. There's
some both beautiful and horrible things
in it. It's crazy that modern
populations see the most remarkable
things, but their humanity has been so
crushed that they can't appreciate its
intensity. There's another paradox
there. Life today is so insane by
historic standards, but nothing ever
happens and the end of history has
already been reached. So, we have a
worldview that says that the world can't
change, which is not going to work. I
think the reason that paradox is so
built into modernity is that broken
people are the most paradoxical. I don't
really agree with this, but Toltoy said
all happy families are similar and that
unhappy people are different. It speaks
to a point that broken people have lots
of disintegrated stuff which jostles
against others. Healthy people have come
to terms with their own complexity.
Modern society is incredibly immature
since it's the first time that humanity
has gotten enough power to not be
totally reliant on the earth's bounty.
For almost all of our ancestors, they
were farmers, herders, hunter gatherers,
or whatever. And those who weren't were
people like lords or church or
bourgeoisi who were a small minority
totally dependent on the people who were
getting food from the land. With the
industrial revolution we unlocked
enormous power that we had no experience
with. It's like giving a child a power
tool with no training. It's frankly
painful to watch if you're the sort of
person who knows where this is going to
end. The other thing is that we became
so wealthy so fast that people became
insulated from the costs of their
decisions. People could believe utterly
insane things like that reality didn't
exist or that everyone was equal since
they bore no costs for saying crazy
stuff. This is a highly dangerous
situation and the general public is far
too comfortable to deal with it in a
responsible way. The sheer degree of
denial I see in the world today is
something I could not have predicted in
advance. But I don't blame myself since
this is just utter madness. Faced with
enormous intractable issues, whether the
new technologies we do not yet
understand such as genetic engineering,
AI, space, or even older stuff like
nuclear weapons or shoving chemicals
into everything. We have a public that
has zero interest in even thinking about
the consequences. Throw on top of this a
complete societal and cultural collapse
paralleled either by the earlier fall of
civilizations like Rome, Persia or
Greece or with the horrifying mouse
utopia experiments which again the
public ignores all of this. This is just
the tip of a spear between the culture
or innovation grinding to an utter halt,
the rise of external powers like China,
an utterly collapsing birth rate,
political polarization, the average
person sliding into degrading poverty,
and the West being controlled by a death
cult bent on the destruction of its own
civilization. I'm not even giving
everything that deserves credit here.
Like, credit. The world is going on the
most insane financial money printing
event ever in human history or potential
climactic issues. As I like to say, this
all sounds quite intimidating because it
is. However, life is a [__] test and you
have nothing better to do than to deal
with it. I know none of you have lives
that are more interesting or compelling
than fixing this. A lot of you are
normies, have financial liabilities or
families, but a lot of you don't either.
We're going to have to solve this. And
if we don't, we will lose absolutely
everything. People are too coddled today
to realize how bad life can get and how
stopping that requires effort and
courage. One of my good friends used to
work for an agriculture company in India
and Thailand and Indonesia. And he said,
"In those countries, there is levels of
poverty which we would only see in
post-apocalyptic movies. We are going to
fix this so that our children can live
in a better country because that is the
only acceptable outcome we should choose
to live with. What I did not expect was
that the whole world's reaction to this
would just be denial. I didn't think
lying to yourself for this long was even
in the phone book of options. I assumed
over time that the nagging worries would
become too intrusive, that the streets
would get too dirty and people would get
too poor. But psych, no. Welcome to
governance by the baby boomers where
issues are not solved and we all
collectively agree to pretend it's still
the 20th century while having none of
the positives of that society. You'd
think people would realize after a
certain point that it's inside their
self-interest to defect from the system.
But I think a combination of economic
misery, being so isolated, beaten down
by the left's psychological warfare, and
the collective slide into madness that
people don't have the life force to
stand upright. However, this will change
and it's a matter of when, not if, since
situations like this are innately deeply
unstable. We see a sort of stable
equilibrium now since it looks like the
world we thought we knew. However, the
current world around us is an illusion
kept together by too many people being
utterly terrified of losing their
worldly things. They don't seem to
realize that they're going to lose their
things anyway if they don't stand up. I
partly blame aging since we are the
first old society ever in human history
with America being one of the younger
countries in the industrial world, but
our average age is still 40. Modernity
is weird for both keeping a lot of
consistency with earlier eras of
history, but also having its own weird
new stuff. You can't call which will be
which in advanced. This world will come
crashing down. In fact, it already has
in nearly every conceivable way.
However, we're too set on maintaining
the illusion of the old world. No matter
how hard we try, we are not strong
enough to stop this since elites do not
in fact control the world. The world has
its own plans and history shows that
elites who don't keep up with them get
crushed. The current order has nothing
holding it together except entropy. No
one believes in the current order, even
the elites. No one wants this to be our
world. Both the right and the left hate
modernity. And the current regime is
incapable of generating anything.
Regimes that don't generate things die
and get crushed by those who do as part
of a natural Darwinistic process.
Modernity is so fast that trends which
may have taken centuries 2,000 years ago
can occur in decades. The reason you
haven't realized that the old world is
dead is that there has been an active
conspiracy on the part of the entire
world's social authorities to not show
it. This sounds like a centrally
orchestrated thing, but rather it's just
from the individual self-interest of
various world leaders and elites who
don't understand the new world or how to
deal with it and so can't make new
stories about the current society that
don't end up invalidating their own
rule. It's a tale as old as time.
Corrupt elites trying to hold on to
power at all costs. We try to maintain
the outward forms of the comfortable and
stable John Hughes Simpsons America of
the last century. While for most younger
people, their lives have practically
nothing in common with it. As I've read
more books from the 20th century, it's
really struck me how much we've changed
since then in so many ways. Even with
authors in the 1990s, this is a lot for
someone my age to hold on their plate.
It would be a lie to say that knowing
this hasn't eaten at me a little. My
eyes are already open and I couldn't
close them, even if I wanted to. There's
not enough space to live in the older
version of me who believe these lies as
a child for me to grow today. As of now,
I just have to watch my world fall apart
before my own eyes. And the vast
majority of people are too medicated,
depressed, and/or are in denial to
acknowledge it. I guess this is my fate.
There are worse things in the big
picture and I'll make sure it works. I
have plenty of good stuff. I am from a
culture where people speak bluntly,
where I'm an Irish guy from Philly,
where people don't really have filters
back home. So, don't read between the
lines too much of what I'm saying here.
I started to intuitit all of these
things as a teenager. As I said before,
I'm from Philly, which is probably the
most downwardly mobile city in America
over the last century. So, a lot of
these conclusions were utterly
unavoidable. However, I was intimidated
by these things. I'm not anymore. The
reason is that as a teen, I could tell
adults didn't know what they were really
saying about the world. The things they
said felt empty and bol like styrofoam.
Real things are messy and living.
Nihilism is killing us. Growing up, my
father would tell me about how the most
core causal variable for the issues I
saw in the world around me was the death
of God. My father said that without a
shared sense of God or meaning that
people did not have the reason to live.
He said that Marxism was the envious who
were trying to tear down the world to
take revenge for the loss of heaven or
an afterlife. that the reason the west
was too weak to either have an effective
foreign policy or let children play
outside is that without God there was no
reason to face suffering or believe in
yourself. He said that the story of the
20th century was when our human sciences
did not progress as fast as our
technological sciences which created
evil regimes based off pseudocience.
that the human sciences of the 20th
century were just stuff we made up and
instead we would have to pull in
religion or preodern social ideas to
make a correct system. This is where I
started intellectually. I spent years
trying to figure out how the world
really worked. I compared the different
philosophies of the world from both the
preodern and modern eras. I then did my
own reading and studied the scientific
or intellectual work we have now to run
a sort of reality filter on which
philosophies and worldviews aligned with
both reality and the functionality of a
human society the most. I continually
found that Marxists were the most
obnoxious liars and our society had been
way too soft on them. Secondly, that
preodern societies often understood
highly complex and deep things but
explained them in a format that was
totally unrelatable to modern people or
with religions and myths which left out
very important sort of tools for modern
people to understand them or things we
know now. However, I found something
that could work. I found a corpus of
ideas which can resolve all of the major
issues with what I've articulated here.
Let me show them to you. Part two, which
worldview is accurate. The video I most
recently made was about how the vast
majority of our worldview today is
inaccurate. That on some level every
academic discipline had been colored by
incorrect framings to a degree in which
you can't trust our entire worldview.
That's a very deep and heavy topic which
I won't get as much into this video.
However, that's a framework you are
going to need to understand this video.
It also plays into what I just said that
the current mental and worldview
framework we have for the world is not
able to deal with the dangerous
realities of life today. There's a sort
of disjoint here in trying to cross
reference which theories of the world
can explain the world today. Modernist
thinkers have a tendency to be really
bad at understanding systems thinking,
human nature, or the big picture. This
is a way bigger issue than a lot of you
probably realize since those things
inform every element of how you perceive
the world. For example, communism was
seen as a moral evil for the vast
majority of human history since they had
a better comprehension of human nature
that humans have souls pointed towards
heaven and their own animal motivations.
This makes Marxism slavery to the state
not seen as empowering a world without
conflict or poverty which it does not
actually achieve but rather the crushing
of human soul and character.
Alternately, preodern thinkers would see
stuff like cold rationalism or social
engineering as evil since neither
respected the interconnected and divine
nature of reality itself. Where you
can't just rip reality up without
thinking you're going to generate more
issues than you solve. This is what
preodern thinkers were really good at
and moderns are terrible at. Modern
people are way better at knowing the how
and very bad at knowing the why or
should. Just look at wokeness where the
left so blindly pushed for racial stats
for various industries to match their
quotas. This leaves out very important
details like how cultures and genetics
are actually quite different where
you'll see on top of that a radical
neutering of innovation which is largely
done by white men that using national
racial stats over America is just utter
madness given how much America's racial
demographics fluctuate by region. And
that's leaving out a dozen other very
important variables they did not in fact
consider. This is just one example of
one of modernity's logical fallacies,
but there are very many. However, at the
same time, there's a sort of
unbridgegable gulf between ancient
wisdom and modern science. For a brief
example, which will make the rest of the
video more comprehensible, alchemy has a
very distinct grammar for how the world
works. If you don't know the grammar,
alchemy comes across as gibberish.
However, if you do, it's absolutely
brilliant. For example, in alchemy,
there are four states. Albo, rubdo,
negrado, or citronus. For examples in
history, Albo is a period of high
intellectual depth and cultivation.
Examples would include classical Athens,
18th century France, or the Italian
Renaissance. The white or albbo must
come out of chaos and disorder though
which all of these historic periods did
and it must evolve into yellow or
citronus. This is when a sort of idea of
a society evolves into material form or
how those intellectual principles from
those breakthroughs were applied across
the whole world. This is a stage of
decadence where these ideas mix with the
world and get watered down. That would
be the helenistic period, modernity or
broke decadence which followed all of
those time periods. However, decadence
is necessary to this process since it
burns away the unnecessary parts of the
older society and allows these ideas to
sink in with the society. Negrado, get
your laughs out now guys. This isn't
about black people is a term for the raw
darkness and horror of your worst
points. In alchemy, suffering is
required to burn away weakness. You can
see this is totally true in that
Darwinism is built off survival of the
fittest. Ancient historians like
Herododus or Iben Calun agreed that
weakness destroyed nations and science,
rule of law, capitalism or democracy are
so valuable since they create internal
rules to mediate productive competition.
Negrado is the least favorite, but it's
also necessary to keep things real, and
good things only come out of how
suffering makes people stronger. Think
of how the vast majority of scientific
innovations are from war. This is a
principle that people in modernity
really have a hard time stomaching since
we live in such comfortable times. We
don't want to believe that suffering is
necessary to growth. Finally is rubdo
which is the lion's roar of red. This is
the period when history just explodes
like how Alexander the Great or Genghask
Khan broke entire continents under their
will. The French Revolution exploding
across Europe or the Spanish bloody
taking down two continents. This is
necessary but again modernity doesn't
like this since genuine innovation is
always disruptive. It's so spoiled and
immature of us to hate on the age of
European exploration, industrialization,
and colonialism since we all live in the
world they made. The only reason we have
the science, hygiene, food, technology,
or often countries or continents that we
do is because of the rubo of that era.
We're now sliding into yellow or black
so that we can have another era of white
or red. Finally, you have the blue,
which I haven't studied as much, but I
believe is the creative font of new
innovation that comes from the shadows
or the night. Think of how the European
dark ages after the fall of Rome set the
foundations for the most successful
civilization in history or how colonial
America did the same for our nation. How
the forests and myths of ancient Greece
set the foundations for the albdo of
their classical civilization and the
rubo of Alexander. The thing is that I
applied this framework to history since
that's my area of study, but you could
do this for any other discipline. Keep
in mind, alchemy was in a lot of ways
the origin of science, as we'll talk
about later in this video, where every
major thinker and the foundation of
modern science had some background in
alchemy. Alchemy exists in parallel to
science in that it's a set of way to
look at symptoms which mirror across
realms of existence. So you could use
these colors to look at human nature,
psychology, smelting in a smithy, which
is where alchemy started for
spirituality, history, evolution, or
other disciplines. An interesting
element of the psychology of alchemy is
when you're talking about these colors,
you're breaking out of the idea that
this trauma is caused by your parents or
this is caused by your employer. You're
just saying you are in negrado and you
are suffering. You should deal with it.
And I see these as useful tools which
you can apply to a wide variety of
disciplines, as a certain type of lens,
but not the sole lens you should use. I
see this video as a challenge. If it
kind of comes off strange, you don't
like it. The reason is I'm trying to get
to the edges of what I can do with my
current skill level to see if it works.
One of the tests here is can I get a
modernist audience to respect something
which their neurology will absolutely
not like? We don't think about this, but
the way modern societies wire their
neurology is in fact not rational or
scientific. Science is just a testing
method and you don't need the
machine-like aesthetic or to apply
science as the sole ruling principle of
your society. We agreed to that since it
fit a certain vibe, not because it
actually made rational sense. Since no
major philosopher ever argued for this,
as I explained in this text wall, if I
fail this test, oh well, things happen
sometimes. The way I think, and I
believe this is valuable to articulate
since it's alien to a lot of people, is
that I say things as a way to think out
the implications of it in a process of
curiosity with my audience. I put on
various perspectives or intellectual
masks, try them on, and if they stick, I
keep them. This is how I see stuff like
this. The reason I state this is that
people seem to get very worked up about
intellectual or social ideas as they
form their identity. But this totally
removes thinking about them critically
and sort of fossilizes people's
worldviews. Once you fossilize a
worldview, it's going to end up being
wrong because it won't be able to adjust
to the world. I try to keep a core set
of moral values I hold true to and then
adapt my worldview by context or
whatever new data I pull in tells me. I
am frequently wrong and will happily
admit when I am. That being said, I
think there's something profoundly
valuable in the pre-industrial world's
perception. I think not even being
interested in studying any of the
elements for how people in earlier
societies understood the world is
insanely arrogant and deranged for
modernity even to try this. It's pretty
insane that we have total confidence on
a 200-year trajectory since the French
Revolution which has been marred by
constant wars and disturbances. one
where the scientific consensus on a
variety of topics changes every
generation and where social authorities
are totally unwilling to admit fault. At
the same time, where they push ideas
which are overtly wrong, like that men
and women are the same or that you can
print infinite money with no
consequences and having a coherent
functioning society is racism. Looking
to the past to figure out principles is
just common sense. And the question is
which principles from the past fit with
our current context and appear to match
up with the trustworthy scientific data
we have now. I need you to watch this
video until the end, although I know
it's long before you judge since I think
there will be an immediate knee-jerk no
reaction, but I've spent years trying to
translate alchemical principles into
modern scientific terminology and it
does actually work. surprising. If you
actually understand what alchemy is
trying to convey behind all the obtuse
symbols and weird language, you'll find
it has a pre-established moral code in
worldview, which already knows how to
handle the enormous power of modern
technology that we have now, as well as
how to cultivate a society which is
responsible enough to handle it. The
good news is that all of these questions
we worry about now have already been
thought through for thousands of years.
I have lots of friends in the tech
industry and it's funny they'll mention
some problem and so often the alchemists
already wrote on that and I can just
immediately tell them what the
alchemical teaching is. I've checked
this for a while and it's consistently
held up. that since the philosophy of
alchemy is a question of how to attain
greater and greater amounts of power
without growing corrupted. This was an
issue philosophers have been aware of
for millennia. You know man, sometimes
the sorcery is just too strong and you
got to roll with that. Another very
valuable thing is that the alchemical
worldview is not in contradiction with
Christianity at all. Every major
Christian church has endorsed it and
funded it at one point or another. The
Catholic Church funded research on the
topic and in the 16th century every
major royal court in Europe hired
alchemists. The philosophy of alchemy
influenced the early church with the
fathers of the church like St. Augustine
or origin not being totally opposed
seeing the founder of this tradition
Hermes tismagist as a precursor to
Christ and a pagan figure in the
Christian tradition like senica Plato or
Aristotle. Hermeticism or another name
for the philosophy of alchemy has
already had an enormous impact on
western history between the Italian
Renaissance which it heavily inspired
the founding fathers that were deeply
steeped in it as were almost all of the
founders of science. We're going to talk
about this more so at the end of the
video. The reason we don't hear about it
is since this stuff is coded in a
certain way that it's not generally
accessible and it was heavily
concentrated among the upper classes or
intellectuals who were the people making
leadership decisions but didn't
percolate through the general public so
it didn't transfer to democracy very
easily. I will say that this tradition
is deeply complex. I've kind of stumbled
into it and after reading like 50 books
on mysticism, I still don't consider
myself a master. I learn something new
every time I open a book on this topic
and my skills here aren't anywhere as
good as what they are in history or
anthropology. However, I know
practically no one else knows anything
on these topics, so I'm going to go
ahead. Another element is that alchemy
deals with how to advance on a
consciousness level as your material
conditions improve. Which means they are
writing for people at different tiers of
consciousness at once. If you're not
aware enough to understand something in
alchemy, that's on purpose since that
information is only meant to be known by
someone who is aware enough to take it.
It's overly complex and weird on purpose
for that reason. If you don't like it,
that's fine. It's not made for most
people. It's designed to be the exact
opposite of convenient or
comprehensible, which makes it utterly
incomprehensible to the modern mind.
Part three, the hermetic worldview. The
reason I think that alchemy, alternately
called the hermetica, can explain the
scientific world very well is it allows
you to switch your framing on how the
world works by perceiving the material
realities of science through a different
worldview where they actually make sense
inside a bigger frame. There's two ways
that I would recommend that people who
are trying to get into the hermetica
start. One is with the cabalonian or a
guide written on the underlying implicit
principles of hermeticism. Alongside
there's a lot of good secondary sources
on the topic which do a much better job
of explaining how the general worldview
works which is what I found the most
valuable. The top five I'd recommend are
the secret history of the world,
forbidden universe, the hermetic link,
the hermetica and creative alchemy
alongside Eliata's book on alchemy. If
you want to understand how these fit
into a broader modern worldview, read
Ken Wilbur's book, Sex, Ecology, and
Spirituality, alongside Jordan
Peterson's maps of meaning. Then there's
the Corpus Hermeticum, Esleius, and the
Emerald Tablet, which are other really
useful primary sources on this topic.
All of those primary sources are less
than like 400 pages total, so it's not a
big deal to read all. A point Elellata
makes is that the hermetica or all forms
of alchemy which you also have in China
or India come from smelting in furnaces
and iron working. These were ideas that
were first developed with blacksmiths
trying to understand the miracle of
metal working. A lot of this mutated
into cooking or chemistry where the
hermetica loves symbolism of let him
cook or front and back burner. The
hammer is the masculine element. The
iron is the feminine. The final produced
good is the synthesis. The way hermetics
frame this is by working through metals
to reach gold. These were symbolic
understandings of the gold. So gold was
spiritual enlightenment. However, this
is also so philosophically complicated
and incestuous that you should read this
textual to understand it better. The
philosopher stone was a symbol for
something in the far future that was
powerful enough to understand all things
and transmute one material to another by
being so advanced. The stone was not
actually a stone, but more so a waxy
tablet that you should see as some
advanced piece of technology in the far
future that they were aiming towards
over the course of centuries. This is
the weirdest intro into hermeticism and
I promise I can explain why this
framework exists in a sane way going
forward. This is a funny way of phrasing
it, but a way to see the Hermetica is
much like communism or some insane anime
fandom. For example, I've never watched
the One Piece show since I see the
thousand episodes or whatever and I
think, Jesus, I don't have enough free
time for this. Keep in mind that nerds
in the preodern world needed hobbies,
too. The Hermetica is designed to be
coded only for the types of people who
are mature enough for it, and there are
multiple entry points you can choose.
There is a truly huge amount of hermetic
lore, and you can start in a variety of
ways. When you encounter another person
who has studied the hermetica, you'll
almost always find that their study of
the topic is coded for their own
personal experience. And so you'll share
your journey. This is a structured part
of the hermetic process where it's
supposed to be tailored to you as an
individual. It's an open-source toolkit
which you can use for a variety of
things. It builds your identity around
you as you use these tools to further
your life journey to reach your destiny.
It's less valuable to see it as a
religion like the Abrahamics than it is
a philosophy with lots of tools you can
use to understand the world. You can
pick or choose tools by context.
However, this is also why I never think
the hermetica can or should be a
society's majority religion since it
isn't made to serve the needs of
ordinary people or a society. You see,
most religions operate like a sort of
psychic force field for a society.
Christianity, Hinduism or Islam create
psychological worlds which create space
for entire civilizations to develop.
These create worldviews which can't
really interface with others and thus
have rules which often end up collapsing
into totalitarianism
since their rules can't update in all
contexts. What the Hermetica is designed
to be is a toolkit for those who wander
outside those religious force fields.
That's why it's called the belief system
of travelers, rogues, and kings. It's
for the self-employed or those who exist
outside normal structures since either
the king must deal above his nation in
order to fight others and deal with
international diplomacy or the traveler
who must wander between worlds. You can
see why I'm sort of comparing it to
communism as a vaguely secular ideology
which you can use as a mental framework
to understand the world but doesn't
operate as a traditional religion. This
provides a very valuable service in a
globalized economy where the old
civilizations can't fully adapt to a new
world. In the same way that at the time
of Herododus, religion declined since
the Greeks could see the gods of many
other nations, which made it hard to
believe in their own religions or
cultures today are forced to cooperate
against both the globalized world and
the changes with new science and
technology. However, religion is a
society's worldview or operating system
and so it must exist and not doing so
will kill a society. What the Hermetica
and other forms of alchemy like the
Indian or Dowist do is make a list of
tools which can allow the cross-section
of science and religion. So you can take
off certain moral values based on
context or good sense. The hermetica is
difficult to categorize since it was
made before modern people established
clear principles on what constituted
certain academic disciplines.
Hermeticism is a way of looking at the
world holistically and then seeing
patterns across disciplines. There were
hermetic styles of magic, astrology,
physics, biology, art, politics,
religion, philosophy, and so many other
things given the hermetica as a system.
It's not a given thing. This makes it
difficult for modern people. But it also
makes it very useful in classic fashion
where often the thing you don't want is
what you actually need. Modern people
need logical systems like the hermetica
so that we can logic our way out of our
own civilizational autism, schizophrenia
or mental illness back into having a
meaningful profound worldview like our
ancestors did. The hermetica is how you
explain religion to smart intellectual
people. The Hermetica isn't like other
girls or other religions in that it's
not a list of dogma, but rather a
framework for how to evolve as a person
or a thing and build your own morality
based on context. The way to see it is
less than competing with Christianity or
other world religions, rather worldviews
like Marxism. The hermetica is the
direct inverse of Marxism in which both
our worldviews about how things should
evolve over the course of time where
Marx's idea of the historic dialectic
actually stems from the hermetica for
reasons explained in this text wall
through Hegel. The hermetica establishes
a framework for how to find chaos,
subdue or master it, and then turn it
into your property and in the process
grow as a person. When communism values
slavery, immaturity, and machine-like
thinking, the hermetica values freedom,
maturity, human consciousness, and
manhood. In our current worldview,
Marxism has de facto filled the frame of
our global worldview in that the first
reaction to a globalized world of many
religions was to negate all of them in
default onto the lowest trust and most
cynical worldview possible as a way to
not have to maintain the global commons
which would be quite difficult. What
this means is that Christians today,
without even realizing it, have been
operating within a Marxist frame, since
they've made the decision that pushing
social justice, killing the West, and
Marxist oppression narratives trumps
actually following the Bible for lots of
Western churches. People really
underestimate how Marxism has colored
our entire worldview. and it goes
through academia, value systems, sexual
relations,
human nature, and a variety of things.
What I'm recommending here is using the
hermetica to replace the things Marxism
does in our current society, which would
then allow the major world religions to
flower. Keep in mind that Marxism
teaches that the spiritual simply does
not exist. that the divine spark does
not exist in humans, that humans don't
have a soul, that the chaos God uses to
test humanity should be destroyed. The
major world religions cannot survive in
a Marxist frame, which is a big reason
why global religiosity is collapsing so
precipitously. However, in the
Hermetica, you have an open-source
toolkit which creates a framework for
different world religions to interface
with the divine. So, you've suddenly
opened up global cultures to be able to
talk to God. Again, hermeticism allows
everyone to access the tree of human
life and consciousness. I can't
overstate how easy and how important a
historic shift this would be. We would
just have to do it. to return to topic
as a way to sort of go through the
hermetic principles. Let's go through
the cabalians principles to understand
the topic more deeply. You have
mentalism or that the universe is a
dream by God. Correspondence or as above
so below. Vibration that nothing stays
the same. Polarity or that everything
which exists also has its opposite.
Rhythm or that everything flows in
cycles. cause and effect, which is every
cause has an effect, and gender, which
is that everything has masculine or
feminine principles. These are fairly
bare bones, but these are all very
necessary things you need to understand,
the world, which modernity does not
have. They provide frameworks for things
we don't think about today, but we need
to know about. Another really
interesting hermetic principle, which I
find quite valuable, is microcosmos
equals macrocosmos. And what that means
is that large very complex things have
small symbolic forms which guide the
larger thing. As an example, I've spoken
about in previous videos how society's
family structures dictate their
political structures through creating
intuitive notions about how power should
be used. So if you change a society's
family structure, you're also going to
change their political structure.
Similarly, nations or religions use
certain symbols like capitals or
religious symbolism where if you attack
the Vatican, you're attacking the entire
global Catholic Church. Washington DC is
a microcosmos of America where these
leaders in rooms are making decisions
which impact the entirety of humanity.
So the course of human history exists in
a microcosmic form being determined in
negotiating rooms by world leadership.
Microcosmos versus macrocosmos also
explains a lot of religious symbolism
where you have to think to yourself how
come a cross is symbolic for an entire
religion or a half moon for another
religion. Another example of hermetic
principles that are highly useful is the
polarity of the masculine and feminine,
which is very real to society, but is
something that people just ignore. Men
and women need different things out of
life, but we can't admit that. The
reason social engineering doesn't work
is that the world is constantly moving
and operating in rhythms, which means
that overly rigid structures can't
accurately model reality. If you look
enough at physics or just human life in
general, you find that they do generally
follow principles like this. For
example, over history, people tend to
not operate rationally, but do the
opposite of the recent trend. The
enormous wealth and growth of the
industrial revolution created
populations which had suicidal misery
since all that wealth needed psychic
balance. The French Revolution was a
reaction to the failings of the
aristocratic revolution. romanticism to
the over rigidity of the enlightenment.
Meanwhile, in Britain, where the elites
were less repressive than France, there
was no equivalent reaction like the
French Revolution. Once you create a
very stark polarity like the Roman or
Chinese empires, you also create
barbarians like the Germans or Mongols
who become strong enough to destroy
them. You see anti-ivilization develop
in polarity to civilization. The core
idea which modern people will have the
hardest time comprehending here is the
concept that the whole world is mental.
Explaining all of this would be a
distinct video in its own right which
would take a while as a rabbit hole. But
there is physics evidence which has
become stronger over time that reality
does indeed not exist without
consciousness. The big physics journals
say that reality is not locally real or
it does not exist distinct from our
perception of it, which is really trippy
for modern people. Alternately, the
research that our perception of
particles colors their actual
composition. Some people say that this
means we're in a simulation, others that
God runs the universe, but both are
functionally the same once you take away
the labels. Beyond this, the research we
found pretty consistently that plants
know what you're thinking about and
their vital statistics change around the
thoughts of the humans around them.
Another element the hermetica does
really well here is its ability to
balance how bad modern people are at
understanding chaos or the unknown.
Modernity likes to say that anything we
can't measure scientifically doesn't
exist. However, the universe is
infinitely large. And so that opens you
up to a very dangerous place where you
just use things that you can measure as
a way to live in denial about things you
don't want to know about. This is how
our elite backs insane stuff. And
realistically, we just need to have
another filter for common sense and
things we've known for thousands of
years to balance simply science as our
society's dominant moral code. The
hermetica operates by archetypes like
the masculine and the feminine, chaos
and order, or higher and lower forms.
Jordan Peterson's maps of meaning was
super groundbreaking in that he used a
holistic look at the human condition
between neurology, history, mythology,
art, or anthropology to say that these
archetypes do in fact totally exist. And
just because we can't see them in the
lab doesn't mean they're not valid.
Humans very much do process chaos and
build our lives to avoid it. Chaos is
real. Evil is real if you've had to live
through it. Saying otherwise is just
childishly keeping your fingers in your
ears and going law. If evil and chaos
must exist, by definition, so must good
and order. Once you acknowledge that
these archetypes can manifest over
reality, you are quite close to saying
that God exists. For an example of
hermetic archetypes, we've spoken before
about the masculine and the feminine.
The masculine is doing and the feminine
is being. For a great example of this,
let's look at the US currency and state
buildings which were built by hermetics
during the American Revolution. In the
National Mall, you have the obelisk
which was taken from an Egyptian concept
for the earth penis impregnating the
sky. The hermetica is from Egypt. Then
you have the National Mall or the
feminine. On the $1 bill is the pyramid
in the circle which is upward or
masculine spiritual momentum and the
circle or feminine downward spiritual
momentum. This is the ying and yang
concept which exists in all cultures.
Men are attractive for their ability to
do and their energy. Women for their
being and calmness. When you screw this
up, people just stop mating as you can
see in our current society. Without
following these hermetic principles
intuitively, a society cannot procreate.
However, inside the hermetica is a very
useful concept that we are all building
reality together. This doesn't make
sense to modernity, but it's obviously
true. It's most obvious with the
greatest historic figures like Christ or
Napoleon, but they did very much write
the world around them. Everything that
humans built around us is something that
came out of someone's mind and then
became a material reality. The ideal is
trying to use the material to reach its
own aims. Which is often why certain
religions like communism or Islam can
possess a certain nation, drive them
crazy, and then attack their neighbors.
On the smaller level, people will create
the future by procreating and building
their own households or families. On the
greater scale, national leaders or
prophets build entire civilizations. In
the Hermetica, your social status should
be dictated by how much of reality
you're responsible for writing. This is
why kings make more than peasants since
the king needs to mentally model the
entire nation in geopolitics. And if he
doesn't, he suffers for it. Inequality
is a built-in part of the hermetica
since the purpose of life is to face
suffering and grow to evolve to a higher
level. Inequality is needed to motivate
men to face chaos. The more chaos a man
conquers and integrates, the more he is
rewarded. The core values of the
hermetica are courage, discipline, and
imagination. for an example in physics
about why it's impossible to measure
particletoarticle interactions is that
the future is actively being weaved and
carved out by billions of people in real
time. The reason modernity is so rich
but is so miserable is partly that it
gives humans so little agency which is a
core part of being human in the hermetic
philosophy. It's often as if a particle
in physics is making a choice in real
time given the future has not yet been
determined. In the Hermetica, there are
variables outside our control. You
should accept, but you have to choose
between different timelines and use the
force of will or imagination to hold
onto the future you want as much as
possible. We're all radio towers
competing with one another to have the
strongest mental wave so that our light
can grow. This is so obvious in the
internet today. People rub off their
essence or vibration, which is an actual
hermetic concept in which you gradually
take on the character of the people and
the places you've been. If you want to
help the world, you should behave
correctly. And according to this
philosophy, what you do to others is
what you become. Your intentions as you
deal with the world rub off on the
things you do, as you can see with great
leaders where as their hubris grows,
their empire collapses. We see these
trends in that high trust governments
become radically wealthier than lowrust
ones. as you can see with the Spanish
versus the British North America is
showing the hermetic principle that
intentions do in fact ripple across very
long periods of time. The reasons that
the left's fantasies about using
bureaucracy to replace leadership are
always utter failures is that a group
needs to have the mental humanizing
element in order to function as a unique
whole in that humanizing something is an
active process in the hermetica
dependent on projecting higher quality
consciousness into the unconscious. It
is against nature for those with lower
levels of consciousness to rule those
higher in these societies collapse into
barbarism or decadence. With a
scientific discovery, the scientist is
shining the conscious mind into
something they didn't know before to
master it. The first step to gaining
power over something is to see that it's
there, often through intuition. Then
gain knowledge of it. Figure out how it
works. take control of it and integrate
it into your worldview. It's no wonder
that practically all of the founders of
early science were familiar with the
hermetica since this is just a
scientific method. The reason Bruno,
followed by Galileo, thought that the
Earth circled the sun wasn't since
science told them so, since telescopes
weren't advanced enough at that time for
that. it since the hermetica said that
this sun was just one of nearly infinite
worlds circling their own sun in the
vastness of space. Life stemmed from the
energy of the sun crushing matter and
the earth was nearly infinitely old
while the universe was even older. To go
through other hermetic doctrines that
are thousands of years old. Another is
evolution. Evolution is called the
transmutation of forms. This is how one
form progresses to another like how Homo
erectus evolved into modern humans. In
each case, you use suffering to burn
away weakness and then as you calcify to
your core which allows you to transmute
to a higher level. This is almost
identical to Darwin's theory of the
survival of the fittest in which the
struggle for survival promotes good
genes. I don't have evidence Darwin was
influenced by the hermetica, but these
sort of ideas were in wide circulation
in 19th century Europe, so it's not
unimaginable. However, hermeticism does
have an element missing in current
evolutionary theory. There have been
doubts among many authors for centuries
how in Darwin's worldview, there is
space for the selecting of genes, but
not how the mutations themselves are
generated. Furthermore, how life seems
to have very clear archetypal patterns
where societies on the other side of the
world have so many cultural
similarities. How crabs have evolved
from convergent evolution many times
over or how insects, mammals, reptiles,
and birds have all independently evolved
to fly. Furthermore, how anyone evolves
to fly seems pretty difficult just by
chance. Modern science cannot deal with
how staggeringly improbable life in the
universe itself is. How all the
coincidences line up for the Earth
having the exact right amount of oxygen
or temperature or gravity where the
slightest deviation in any of these
would mean life never evolved. But it
did and we humans are here. Why does the
universe even exist at all? At its core,
the hermetica is a way to integrate the
evolutionary process into the divine. In
it, it's our moral duty to learn and
grow in order to be able to become more
like God. The Hermetica is focused on
increasing life charge or the power of
evolution, and it needs another religion
to counterbalance it in other elements
like social life or moral values. Those
who don't grow get crushed by those who
do since life itself is trying to grow.
Life uses consciousness to expedite the
speed of its growth faster than would
occur otherwise. Thus, the growth of
consciousness will prioritize your
position in evolution. Which is why high
consciousness peoples like humans can
beat other apes or mammals. Alternately,
how the Europeans conquered the world
with science and Christianity. In the
hermetica, the earth is a living
breathing organism called the anamundi,
which is the collective unconscious of
life. What the anamundi does is its
ultimate goal is growth. But in order to
do that, it has to burn away weakness.
So, it creates competition. And life is
a game where the goal is to grow and
evolve. And we know this to be true
because the level of complexity for life
has been predicated upon the level of
evolutionary advancement. So when we
were at cellular life forms, we were
competing against other cellular life
forms. Then we were competing reptiles
against other reptiles, then mammals.
And now when we see the breakthrough of
the last thousand years, every time
humanity gets more advanced, you find
that the game gets more complicated. And
what the hermetics believe is that the
spirit world is fundamentally boring.
And life is a place where souls go to
get challenged and to suffer, to have
life with real stakes. Because life does
not have value unless the end points are
difficult enough to give you emotional
value in them. And with the hermetica,
you're seeing that as life gets more
advanced, the stage literally gets
bigger. So millions of years ago, there
was a point when life's biggest
challenge was moving from the sea into
the land as amphibians, and it's just
gotten crazier ever since. In the
hermetica, there's both upwards and
downwards evolution in that you can
either evolve to higher levels by
dealing with dark things like war or
chaos or competition to burn away
suffering. At the same time, people have
also been able to reach above to the
divine where you can see with figures
like Socrates, Buddha or Martin Luther.
The divine means the pure and
transcendent. So I don't mean this in a
purely religious level. Although other
societies in history would interpret it
this way. An example of the transcendent
could be the technological advancement
of modernity as compared to the earlier
society where we brought something new
into the world that did not exist
before. In the hermetica there is no
barrier between science, religion and
mysticism. This was the culture that
early science was developed in. All of
whose founders were religious and
steeped in the occult. Back then they
had a concept called natural science in
which you would use physical science in
the study of the outside world to level
up your consciousness towards God.
Natural science was a hermetic concept
that died in the 70th century and the
division between science and religion
that occurred since has become a
civilizational disaster. What this means
is that downwards evolution is survival
of the fittest. Upwards is a nation
having a genius which causes a
breakthrough. Then their people if
sufficiently respectful try to follow
their teachings which then degenerate
over time. This is why empires are their
strongest on their rise or religions
degenerate centuries after their
original profit requiring future
reformations to stay vigorous. The
hermetica is the manliest philosophy in
this regard since morality requires
constant struggle and overcoming of
chaos. Let's look more at the hermetic
evolutionary process since I think
inside it is something very important.
Part four, follow the process. I know
this video is already too long, but I
think it's worthwhile given the
complexity and depth of the topic. A
crazy element is I'm not even doing the
Hermetica justice here. I'm not talking
about the seven planetary gods which we
can still see in our days of the week.
Now stemming from the Norse pagan
versions of the hermetica since Odin is
another name for Hermes tismagistice to
go through the week you have Sunday or
the sun, Monday or the moon, Tuesday for
tier, the Norse version of Mars, the god
of war, followed by Wednesday for
Waldon, also known by Odin, king of the
gods, who was a form of Mercury. Then
Thursday for Thor, the thunder god.
Friday for Freya, the Norse Isis or
fertility goddess. And then Saturday for
Saturn, the god of entropy and
boundaries. For a hermetic, these all
have symbolic meanings as underlying
principles which operate across reality.
The reason that our days of the week are
named after them is they were seen as a
very fundamental part of the world and
culture by our ancestors. Another thing
to keep in mind is that Germans under
Odin and the Kelts who are ruled by a
variation of the same god named Lug are
the only peoples on Earth which made
Hermes Tis Majestice their king since
that archetype also combines warrior or
king roles with Hermes's sage elements.
This was also in pagan times before real
contact with classical civilization
which suggests something or archetypal
to the hermetica behind this in human
nature. Is it any wonder as well that
the peoples who made their chief god,
the one of consciousness and evolution
were the ones who launched the
industrial or scientific revolutions?
Keep in mind over the course of
thousands of years, culture and genetics
mix. As Harvard anthropology professor
Joseph Heinrich has spoken of very
cogently, this northwest European
creativity and openness are traits they
have cultivated for thousands of years.
You also have three sorts of archetypes
of hermeticism which I split into
Catholic, shamanic and gnostic. Catholic
is the form of hermeticism which has
totally integrated with Christianity
which has been dominant over western
history. This values modesty and love
more than other sects. For these
different categories, the second would
be the shamanic, which is more so the
kind of stuff Odin would do with facing
overt chaos or savagery to use horror to
grow. Like how Odin nearly killed
himself multiple times to attain wisdom.
Finally, the Gnostic element that got
pretty big at certain segments. And
there's a confusion that Gnostic
hermetics wrote one of the most
important hermetic primary sources, the
Corpus Hermeticum. For a frame of
reference, and this is its own rabbit
hole, Gnostics were a religion from the
Middle East in the same era which
penetrated other religions like the
Christians, Jews or classical
civilization. Their deal is they flipped
the devil in the Old Testament God. The
earth is bad. The serpent in the garden
was the good guy who is trying to
liberate us. and Jesus followed the
serpent. You can see how there's an
insidious element here. The way to spot
the difference is that normal hermetics
don't dislike the physical body and see
it as something to love while gnostic
hermetics see the physical body as
disgusting. In the hermetica, you have
to maintain balance between mind, body,
and soul. This is why in the Renaissance
probably the single historic event most
colored by the hermetica the Renaissance
man was a soant in many disciplines that
since in the hermetica if you're too
stuck in your head you should lift more
to create balance and if your soul is
degenerate you should use your mind to
try to become more holy. If you have an
issue find a balance for it. This is
also why the nude was so common in
Renaissance art since the ability to
strip something to a nude form showed
things at their very core. The hermetica
radically prizes authenticity and
rejects a life without it since
authenticity is a way to connect with
God. In most cases, the hermetica is not
an anti-ex religion, which I think is
necessary in a society where the birth
rate is crashing to zero, but
traditional religious authorities are
unable to deal with that. At the same
time, keep in mind the hermetica
balances sex or authenticity with
responsibility. You should only have sex
if you're mature enough for the
consequences and you should have as much
power to be authentic as you can
responsibly manage. In the hermetica,
it's a moral duty to try to pair up your
sort of masculine or feminine energy
with the best possible combination to
make the best possible child. And so
part of the sexual duality is seen as
this divine process of evolution towards
higher forms. Then you have the four
elements of earth, fire, wind, and air
alongside so much other stuff I'm not
going to get into. You also have
minerals. And there's an entire hermetic
theory of history that you can read with
the good book, A Secret History of the
World. And I leave my sources in the
description here as always. However, the
core theme which I think the Hermetica
does really well is the evolutionary
process which was ported into modern
science and the West's institutions like
democracy, capitalism or science were
created since upper class Europeans in
the early modern period were very
familiar with the hermetica. For
example, for all of these institutions,
you see two opposing forces like
masculine and feminine competing through
this process. One subjugates the other,
takes their best elements and then makes
a child. This also relates to Hegel who
we know was very influenced by the
hermetica with the thesis, anti-thesis
and synthesis. For science, this is the
iron law of empirical testing between
two hypotheses. For democracy, the
two-party system, and capitalism, it's
the competition of the free market. As I
like to say, follow the Dao to wealth
and wisdom. A great irony is that we
live in a world made by the hermetica in
which before the hermetica went out of
fashion with the rise of modernity
institutions were already set up which
followed these principles. The hermetica
teaches that when you set up these
triangles you will get an exponential
result like the sheer rapid growth of
the modern world. The reason for this is
that these hermetically derived testing
methods is what catapulted Europe to
global predominance. The transcendent is
that which exists beyond the earlier
stage of development and modernity
transcended the older order. The reason
Europe conquered the world is because it
established institutions based off
structured competition which allowed
Europe to advance faster than other
civilizations. In the hermetica, you're
always going to have problems in your
life since that's just how the world
tests you so you can keep growing. But
at least you can choose whether you want
to have interesting or uninteresting
problems. A very serious concern is that
these hermetic processes are in place
without the religious wisdom which would
allow us to spot them or their effects
which creates a enormously powerful
soulless Frankenstein which is taking
over society. In fact, it already took
it over. We need to integrate wisdom
into science just to survive at this
point as an existential threat. Even as
science will grow more powerful in the
future. In the hermetica, if you do not
take responsibility for the things you
bring into the world, the natural order
will punish you for your arrogance and
foolishness. Think of Victor
Frankenstein himself, who was an
alchemist, who was incapable of
controlling his creation. This is why I
think this is a valuable concept for the
philosophy of science going forward with
the godlike technology we have now since
it forces responsibility and wisdom
while also offering space for struggle
and growth or reward for courage and
innovation. It's a philosophy of chaos
and order. You can't put the genie back
in the bottle with these modern
technologies, but you can rise to the
occasion to master it. At its core, the
hermetic worldview is that of accepting
reality. It's your moral duty to find
the unpleasant things you want to ignore
or the shadow and then grab it by its
tongue. There's a sort of organic unity
in the hermetica, which forces you to
see the big picture. In a lot of ways,
it's more useful to see the hermetica as
an aid to your own imagination or
thought process through using these
symbols. For example, if you've already
experienced true horror, that just seems
too wrong. The balance is that it will
harden you exponentially more than you
ever thought possible, allowing you to
transcend to a wonderful life. If a
situation doesn't feel right to you,
intuitively, the Hermetica would
encourage you to zoom out to find a way
that it does reach balance. All things
do have balance. You just need to know
where to look. As an example, the
orderly Germans can only exist well
balanced with their warrior insanity.
Snoop Dogg cannot exist without the
duality of weed. I'm sorry, but I had
to. I have developed my own hermetic
theory that a world view is sort of a
stage and that stage is a
self-irculating
system where you can look out upon it to
sort of understand how your life is. You
can walk around. What you do is you go
to the back door or the factual elements
that don't make sense in your current
paradigm where for the theory of
evolution it was developed because the
fossils didn't make sense in the old
idea that God made the earth 6,000 years
ago. So you go to the back door where
the things that don't make sense in your
worldview are the shadow. You climb up
and down the hermetic double helix and
then you can pull the back door to
gradually shuttle up and down to change
the stage itself. And this is how
worldviews alternate over the course of
history. This would be an important time
to talk about spiral dynamics. The
system that Homemath loves and which I
will make a video soon about pulls
enormously from hermetic roots. The idea
that you follow a double helix, one of
the most important hermetic symbols, in
order to transcend to a new tier of
consciousness, can only come from the
hermetica. If you're interested, check
it out and try to guess what tier of
consciousness you're on. Keep in mind,
lower tiers cannot understand higher
tiers by design. I've heard some people
questioning spiral dynamics, but as an
anthropologist, they 100% do exist. You
could move around or argue about the
definitions for each tier, but the world
does not make sense without spiral
dynamics and it explains why you see so
many issues between conservatives and
progressives or immigrants trying to
move into more advanced western
countries. To see this sort of
evolutionary process, let's look at the
US dollar. The eye of perception is the
first step which comes from intuition
and facing things you don't understand.
For me, it was the realization that the
things the regime said did not match up
with the reality I saw before me or the
things I read in books. Alternately, an
explorer noticing that there must be a
lands to the west due to seeing so many
logs or birds in the open ocean. This
person then decides to enter into chaos
and try to understand the thing he
doesn't. This is the point where
Peterson got really influenced by the
hermetica, which he definitely did,
where he was the person who actually
introduced me to the hermetica. The
clean your room being a very tamed down
version of this ethic. Scientific
innovations and cultural breakthroughs
are almost always generated by a flash
of intuition that occurs in a second
after exploring some new topic or
drawing connections you didn't notice
before. It doesn't occur through sort of
rationally trying to figure something
out to force yourself to be creative
where creativity comes when you slow
down and allow the sort of muses as the
Greeks said to flow through you. It's
pulling from higher levels of
consciousness than you are now. And very
few people in a given society are
operating at the edges of consciousness
in a useful way. Where the deeper you go
into human nature, the greater the
degree of profoundity where only a
handful of people in a society are
capable of developing things that can
relate to the entire human or living
condition. Some people can make art or
culture that reflects a nation. Others
just people in their vicinity. And you
need to go to the edges of human
consciousness to find this stuff. And
that can come through physical
suffering, through heightened spiritual
states, through understanding
philosophy, whatever. We all have our
ways to reach the divine or the font of
creativity. After this, you have
downwards momentum or the circle. This
is the yungian shadow or the major
issues you have to fix to improve.
People's shadows vary by context. And an
incredibly important thing with the
hermetica is that it's very
contextdriven. Unlike modern ideologies
which try to impose a frame like race or
class onto everything else, in the
hermetica you have to figure out the
context of a situation yourself and fix
it. Your shadow is the thing you're
hiding from and you don't want to fix.
For example, if you're scared of talking
to girls or your country has a huge
national debt, Yian psychology is
dependent on grabbing your shadow,
coming to comfort with your repressed
side, mastering it, and then allowing
that to transcend to grow. I have done
this many times in my life, and I can
personally attest that it really works.
Of course, Jung was very heavily
influenced by the hermetica with it
probably being the biggest source for
his psychological system. Upwards
momentum is using spirituality or
intellectual ideas to reach levels of
development above what you have now.
Think of historic visionaries which can
see centuries ahead of everyone else in
their society. Similarly to how you need
to balance chaos and order or mind, body
and soul, you also have upwards and
downwards spiritual momentum which are
tied together with the masculine and the
feminine. This is why I say the
hermetica is an open source toolkit more
than a straightup religion. You have to
be smart or wise enough or use the eye
of perception to figure out which of
these tools to toggle at any given time.
Also, as you transcend and learn your
own life, the quality of your toolkit
and stats increase over time. Your
worldview in general should totally
change. So, to summarize the process,
step one, spot a pattern, then study the
things you don't know. Afterwards,
figure them out, then fix the problems,
set up two opposing systems to check if
you're right, and then watch the system
work. Now, isn't that simple? This is
what Peterson talks about when he says,
"Slay the dragon of chaos since you will
be rewarded by how much chaos you
conquer." This is why industrial tycoons
are so rich. Since they've
single-handedly brought out economic
revolutions that change the world.
Everyone complains at how rich Steve
Jobs is, but they don't think about how
much Microsoft has added to the world's
global GDP. The myths of the dragon
slayer have profound hermetic symbolism
where these exist across cultures
between Marduk slaying Tiiamat in
Mesopotamian mythology, St. George and
the dragon in Christian Europe, Thor and
Yorman Gandonder in the Norse tradition,
Apollo with Python in the Greek, Thesus
with the dragon of Culus among so many
others. And the symbolism is that the
masculine goes out into the world,
conquers nature or mother nature, which
is feminine in the hermetica with mother
nature's greatest monster being the
dragon. And then after he slays the
dragon, he earns the ability to [__] the
princess and pass on his lines. This
means you go out into nature, kill the
dragon, win, bring it back, reap the
reward, and your gene survive. In the
hermetica, innovation occurs in small
circles or by individuals informed by
certain contexts and then dependent on
how applicable it is across human
nature, you can vault it across the
world through rubo. Freedom and
individualism are core values of the
hermetica, given it's made by hermits,
which is where the name is from, who
want to be left alone. Freedom allows
diversity and thus innovation. Try to
find the deepest thing you can for the
further you go down the further you may
also go up. As above so below. In the
hermetica the prima materia is the first
material thing that you start working
with towards reaching the higher form.
The prima materia for a human is a child
and for a land it's the geography. And
Spangler was a very hardcore hermetic
where his worldview only makes sense to
the perspective of hermeticism. And so
what he was talking about is how the
soul of civilizations stem from their
primma materia or their geography which
they then had to work from. Part five,
as it always was. There's this meme with
two spacemen where one says, "Blank
thing is blank." And then the other
spaceman with a gun behind him says, "As
it always was." I'm going to get that
wrong, but it doesn't matter. I'm going
to show you how this arcane philosophy
you've never heard of has always been an
undercurrent to Western history, often
to an enormous degree. You'll possibly
be surprised. And it really shows how
often we miss the true character or
nature of the past as we try to study
it. The origins of the hermetica
initially lie in Egypt. This was part of
the reason for the enormous interest in
Egyptology in 19th century Europe as
European intellectuals were trying to
find more hermetic documents. The
hermetica was built around the Egyptian
god Thoth, who was the Egyptian version
of the Greek god Hermes. Hermes,
Tismagist, and the Hermetica match older
Egyptian belief structures more than
they do anything the Greeks had
beforehand. So all the evidence points
to this being a very ancient worldview,
one stemming back to perhaps the
pyramids. Feronic Egyptian art is
covered in hermetic symbolism as this
book talks about. What happened after
Alexander the Great's conquest of Egypt
was that the Greeks tried to rationally
integrate lots of oriental traditions a
lot older or deeper than what the Greeks
themselves had a few centuries earlier.
A lot of Plato's philosophy as he
himself said came from the Egyptian
royal teachings or a predecessor to the
Hermetica which he got when he visited
Egypt. The Greeks tried to explain the
Egyptian religious teachings in a
rational manner. This was a period of a
lot of religious diversity and synratism
with the hermetica just being one thread
of many which included Christianity
another oriental Greek mix alongside
Plleonism, Mithraism, Isis, Cibili,
Gnosticism or so many others. This is
why the hermetica has so many
similarities with other beliefs in that
area or that time. I found there's a
very palpable East Mediterranean
religious vibe that they all share in
this hellenistic stew with many
different worldviews and religions
clashing. The hermetica mixed a lot with
early Christianity as it took over the
Roman Empire. Lots of elements of the
Christian cosmology have hermetic
origins and the majority of the fathers
of the early church. People far more
Christian than anyone today saw the
hermetica as a valid intellectual
tradition. Much like the rest of Greco
Roman classical civilization, they
onboarded into early Christianity like
Plato and Aristotle. An important thing
to keep in mind is that these people saw
Christianity as a spiritual path to
reach the kingdom of heaven, which is
how I see it too. One of the side
effects of modernity was Christianity
removing God or the mystic from its
religion and then making Christianity a
social or ethical code. The thing is
that wasn't the intention and is why
Christian regimes in the past didn't
love thy neighbor to their geopolitical
rivals or why equality before God did
not extend to a world where kings and
nobility ruled the peasantry. For
Christian thinkers of this era, the
Hermetica didn't contradict Christ since
they had different goals. Christianity
was to reach the kingdom of heaven
through the cross and the hermetica was
for those weirdos at the edge of
consciousness. The problem now is that
due to science that consciousness
evolution has become part of the
society's operating system to deal with
the sheer speed of social change, which
was not necessary a thousand years ago.
The dark ages saw a decrease in interest
of the hermetica since education got
worse enough across the board in Europe
that there wasn't as much interest in
consciousness development. However, the
period of world history where the
hermetica was most influential was the
Islamic Golden Ages which ended around
the time of the crusades. Alchemy is an
Arabic word and Europe reintegrated
these teachings from the Arabs or
Byzantines during the Crusades. Much
like lots of other exotic religious
ideas or classical authors went back to
Europe. Several cities in Iraq and Syria
declared hermeticism as their official
religion during the collapse of the
Abbisid caliphate around a thousand
years ago. Hermeticism then started to
ramp up over the high middle ages and
reached a new peak of popularity in
western civilization during the
Renaissance in 16th century. As said
before, the Renaissance is the single
era of history most colored by
hermeticism where I might even argue
hermeticism was the biggest component in
the Renaissance. It explains the
emphasis on humanism, a hermetic ideal,
the nude, the beauty of art, which
hermetics use to spot spiritual
intuitions, studying the classics to
gain wisdom, and promoting the chaotic
beauty of the Renaissance. If there's
any given society where lots of people
used their will to powers to try to
transcend through constant bloody
competition, it's the Italian
Renaissance. Artistic beauty in the
hermetica is an external sign of
integration on a variety of levels
either for people, art or a species.
Cosmo de Medici, one of the most
important Renaissance men, was
absolutely obsessed with the hermetica,
as was Leonardo da Vinci. The Vuvian man
by Da Vinci is one of the most overtly
hermetic things you will ever see. We've
spoken before about how almost all of
the thinkers in early science were
hermetics between Isaac Newton who drew
most of the laws of physics from the
hermetica and onethird of his library
was on the topic. Galileo Capernicus and
especially Bruno all developed their
theories from hermetic concepts. John D,
Queen Elizabeth's top adviser for
periods of her reign was obsessed with
the hermetica. He made the Enochian
language to commune with angels,
predicted that the core of Anglo-Saxon
culture would end up in North America,
formed the British secret police and the
idea of the British Empire, alongside
being one of the pioneers of science.
The loss of the Renaissance man to the
world has been a true tragedy. By the
16th century, every major royal court in
Europe had hired a department in
hermetic experts. These were ideas that
were widely entrenched among the upper
classes in sort of wandering philosopher
types which the general public wasn't
aware of. The papacy even funded
widescale research of the hermetica and
it was canon in the Catholic Church that
Hermes tismagist was a progenitor of
Jesus while being widely used in papal
art. However, something happened in the
17th century that killed the hermetica
as a powerful cultural current in
Western civilization. The West went
through an enormous intellectual shift
in the mid to late 17th century, which
took a few hundred years to really set
in among the general public. But when it
did, it amounted to a new civilization,
that being modernity. Tarnis has called
this the Galileo Spininoza Daycart axis.
What these thinkers did was separate the
scientific from the divine. Before this,
science fit into being part of a
religious worldview where the search for
science was part of understanding God's
plan. That as you discovered the world,
you discovered yourself and God, which
is a very hermetic concept. In the
hermetic worldview, nature is a book
that we must learn to read from. This
deserves to be a video in its own right.
But what happened in the 17th century
was that science and religion were
totally divorced as obviously seen in
the Daycart mind body distinction which
doesn't fit in with any of the science
now which is closer to the older
hermetic mind body soul holistic
relationship. Daycart said that God and
spirituality existed purely in our minds
and the only way to understand the
outside world was through material
science. This became the dominant
philosophic school ever since in Western
civilization since the governments of
that era were tired of waging centuries
of religious wars and so made a deal
with the churches to shut off mysticism
in order to maintain control. The death
of the mystic in the long term poisoned
both religion and science without an
appeal to genuine in-person connection
with God under which both Protestantism
and Catholicism were founded. Religion
just became a series of rules, not a
living, breathing connection to the
divine. The removal of the hermetic
framework also turned off the very
intelligent from religion since it felt
like they were being condescended to
told to just believe it because that's
the rules. Over time, this added up as
most of the geniuses were doubting of
Christianity for several centuries.
However, you saw a parallel dynamic
where science became totally divorced
from humanity, turning into a soulless
Frankenstein monster with no ability to
interface with values, the divine or
humanity. This is what created the
soulless, dehumanizing, sterile world we
live in now. Hermeticism did survive
after this point, but by retreating into
secret associations. The elites knew
these concepts and kept to themselves,
but you can still see these principles
applied. The Rosacrruian in Germany were
overt hermetics as were the Freemasons,
which is how these ideas were spread
around the time of the American
Revolution. As we talked about before, I
think the founding fathers put up these
monuments or symbols in our currency as
a wink and nod to future generations to
check these ideas out when things got
bad. Alternately, look at the popularity
of obelisks or Egyptology in Napoleonic
Europe alongside Napoleon and Josephine
being called Mars and Isis, which was
just common parliament at the time, but
also part of the hermetic lore. There's
a whole trajectory of crypto hermetic
philosophers over this time period.
Hermetics often speak in code which I
didn't do for this video but you can see
it in a bunch of other hermetic
philosophers. Hegel, Schilling, Nichze,
Carile, Gustav Labon, Enley Belson and
later or Peterson were all philosophers
who manifested worldviews that had to be
based off the hermetica. Read this text
well for more info. They knew these
ideas had value. Just look at NZA for
example who talks about life
affirmation, overcoming higher and lower
forms, magi, building your own value
system rather than relying on others and
so many things that only make sense in
the hermetic paradigm. When he talks
about the uber mench and the
transmutation of morality, he's
literally using a German word from the
hermetica for the transmutation of
forms. He's recommending using the
hermetic framework of developing your
own moral code. Once this clicked, I
couldn't unsee it. With all of this
being said, the rise of the industrial
revolution and with democracy, the
hermetica just didn't make it. In the
20th century, the mass society of
consumerism and doing what was popular
to the average voter simply had no place
for the hermetica. It was too
complicated, hard, and not directly
scientific in the way they understood
that word. Only a few utter schizos like
Avola or Bergson kept the torch going.
Carl Jung was the singular figure most
responsible for keeping the hermetica
alive in recent times through framing it
brilliantly so through psychological
terms. Peterson got it from Young and
repopularized it to a certain degree
today. That's why I know about it.
However, at the very same time, we
constructed a society which needed the
Hermetica more than ever. with the title
of this video. Will the Hermetica become
the next ideology in the West? The short
answer is I don't know. Probably not at
the current trajectory in that this is
as of now a dead nerd religion totally
unpalatable to moderns. That being said,
we do have genuine agency here. The
reason I gave this video the clickbait
title is that I think this could work. I
started my journey looking for ideas
that could give us the will to live. The
Hermetica puts growth and progress as a
moral good, but does so through
responsibility in humanity. The
Hermetica has a framework to get people
to make babies again without being cruel
by increasing masculine charge. The
hermetica also has a framework on how to
deal with the godlike technology we're
developing like AI, genetic engineering,
the blockchain, the internet, and so
many others. The Hermetica has also been
integral to Western civilization already
for thousands of years and is approved
of by Christianity. If we just removed
the elements in our worldview that are
Marxist now and replaced them with the
hermetica, we could keep the rest of our
culture. In fact, we would become more
western. The reason we're dying is that
we're doing the exact opposite type of
things the hermetica would say in that
we don't discover new things. We don't
challenge ourselves. We don't take
responsibility or think outside the box.
Maybe this is very weird, but our
situation itself is very weird. We're
going to have to think outside the box
to survive. And I don't think you guys
will get how bad things will be. Well,
when everything's said and done, I'm
just here. Peace. Follow your dreams.
Bye.